Testing basics (#28)
paImer/notes: lessons/february/testing-basics.md

# Testing Basics

## What is testing?

When we software test a piece of code, we write a piece of software that executes another piece of software.
The idea behind testing is to *test* your code works how you would expect, given a known set of results, and help a  developer verify that the logic of portion of their program is correct.

**Unit testing** is testing broken down into *units*.
These can intuitively be thought of as the smallest testable part of an application.
A unit test targets a small fragment of code, e.g., a method or a class.

## JUnit

These notes will cover the basic functionality of JUnit.
There are various versions of JUnit, with JUnit 4 and JUnit 5 being the most popular.

> While there are differences between the two, the methods described here are consistent between versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there are differences between the two, the methods described here apply to JUnit 4.
```

## Writing a test

The identifier `@Test` is given before a method to identify it as a test.
To import this identifier, we use `import org.junit.Test`.

A test method should:

- Have both `public` and `void` modifiers
- Take no input values

> Under the test method, you use an *assert* or an *assert statement* to check for expected results against actual results.

Reviewer: `assert` is actually a Java keyword (I think it behaves like the Python one). Please don't use it. Let's refer to the JUnit methods as assertions rather than `assert`s.

```suggestion
Under the test method, you use an *assertion* or an *assertion statement* to check for expected results against actual results.
```

This can be imported with `import org.junit.Assert`.

> It is fairly common (for small programs, at least) to include your testing code in the same file initially.

Reviewer: Nope. They should be separated. Same package is OK.
We keep them in the same file initially, when writing both the test and the class, but that's just to save screen real estate. There's no problem splitting them initially even.
The reason they should be separated is because your program when running 'in production' shouldn't include any test code. The less code, the  smaller memory footprint and less chance of any bugs creeping through.
